Steven: The TA seemed to like the idea of gamifying it somehow
Reminder, 30 min Group Meeting at 7:30 PM.
Omid: id pref someone else to add some details, like adding incentives or some type of accountibility
Omid: cuz i cant think of any
Kevin: I was thinking tho what would you guys think of this idea:
David: well the basic idea for that has been a leaderboard of you and your friends
Omid: oh cool like a gameficiation
Kevin: We allow the user to form contracts with their friends. The app would be more focused on the social accountability aspect as a result. Basically the user would form these contracts that specify the amount of work they are going to do, what kind of work, and how long they will be working on them. It will be more of a checklist and at the end of the deadline for the contract, everyone has to show evidence that they completed each part. Otherwise, nobody can receive productivity points or marks, for a given contract.
David: ok, but what's the point of the points/marks?
Kevin: Gives the user a measure of how productive they are by the number of completed contracts or the amount of grade percentage the thing they are working on is worth
David: kinda kills the web tracking aspect then, no?
Steven: Might be able to add some kind of reward system - badges, letting you go to a blocked website for a bit, etc.
Steven: You would use the points to claim the rewards
Alana: Yeah, it does kill it, though maybe we can somehow integrate it?
Alana: the points to claim rewards sounds good
David: maybe something like, the best person in your group every week get's x points
David: which are rewards for being good, ie; allowed to be a little unproductive with no penalty
Alana: that's pretty good, though when using the points, then you wouldn't be able to gain points though right
Steven: Hides the unproductive activity from your team mates even (assuming you can look at each other's stats)
Steven: Yeah I don't think you can get and spend points at the same time
David: I don't think you need to hide it or anything, it's just like, '1 hour of discounted netflix time' or something
Alana: and then when you use the points then you'd slip down the leaderboard
Alana: i guess that makes sense
David: any other opinions?
Kevin: This seems good for now
Steven: On the iteration plan md that we have to do, it asks to define everyone's roles and responibilities
Kevin: Can we talk about the productivity aspect also?
Kevin: As in, what exactly is being unproductive, it's kinda difficult to classify it with the type of website (i.e. talking to a friend about an assignment on FB when you have listed fb as unproductive)
David: let the users classify it
David: workflow can be like this
David: make group ->invite friends -> define bad sites -> all agree
Steven: Yeah that works.
Alana: what happens with that semi-productive case?
Steven: You could also set up some kind of default setting that would block common time sinks
Philip: or have a default set of sites
Steven: yeah
David: we could bundle some, like 'social media', 'videos', etc
Alana: should we have some type of grey area?
David: like, it's unproductive if it's over x time?
Steven: We're using facebook for communication now. Maybe there's a way to log time spent as unproductive if the user has no unread notifications
Steven: But over X time actually seems like it would make a better fix than that
Philip: would we block the user from accessing these sites if they spend over the amount of time or just deduct score?
Steven: You could have different settings: Ban this set of websites, deduct score, neutral, etc.
David: isn't the whole point that we deter unproductivity through the social aspect? if they can't be bad, they can't score poorly
Steven: That's true
David: maybe given them a popup or something, but we shouldn't block a site
Philip: maybe the user can have a setting to block the site, but they can unblock it anytime
Alana: maybe some type of annoying popup that starts timing up how long you've been on, or like some type of live-ish update on how your score is decreasing
Philip: along with the pop-ups
Steven: It could notify you when you've moved up or down a rank as well
Philip: would we implement a message system where users in the group can give positive/negative feedback to each other?
Philip: or can notify other group members when u are being unproductive?
Steven: What if with your rewards points you could play to dial-up sound in someone else's computer when they're on youtube or something
Philip: so for rewards, you can annoy other group members when they are unproductive
Omid: My initial idea was a user tracking his online behavior by tracking his time on a daily/weekly/monthly basis. And by continuous feedback improve his own self discipline on sites he would visit
Alana: right, which is good, but Adam really wanted us to focus on the social accountability aspect to make the idea unique
Omid: but i understand the importance of adding social aspect by adding a leaderboard
Omid: So make contracts with friends/family
Omid: then check each others progress?
Kevin: Is that enough tho? Like just looking at each other's stats?
Steven: It could have a status under their contact which says something like "currently watching netflix"
Philip: I think it should be "currently being unproductive"
Omid: right so it would show what that person is doing right now. Maybe the guardian could block that site remotely?
Omid: since they formed contracts
Alana: I feel like blocking is abit too extreme..?
David: so the thing with making this super networked is that it a) opens up security issues and b) makes it a lot harder and c) makes your browser a lot slower
Philip: I feel like letting other people know exactly what site you are on is kinda iffy
Omid: I suppose but we already do that with social networking sites...
Omid: not to mention its to the users discretion when they join the contract
Omid: so they would be fine iwht sharing their online activity
Omid: otherwise accountability would be hard..besides a point system which is hard to implement
David: constant updates will be a huge pain in the ass to implement. we can just use aggregated data from every day/week/month
Steven: Omid added links to code for projects that track internet activity. We should probably look at how extensive their implementations are before committing to something complex
In the project file
Omid: those 2 extensions i linked just block site access and track time spent on sites
Omid: sothe challenege would be sharing your online activity with friends
David: ^yeah, that's the easy part really. the social bit is as hard as we want to make it
David: if we do live updates, this will be hell. if we allow users to block each other over the web, there will 100% be vulnerabilities with that
David: let's keep it simple with a daily/weekly/monthly leaderboard system, with accounting happening locally. every period, you send your data to a server, it aggregates everyone's stuff and creates the ranking
Steven: We can deny that as the minimum viable product
Steven: *define
Alana: is this pretty similar to ours? https://www.rescuetime.com/features
Alana: but ours will have a group contract
David: that looks like a desktop app, so it also looks at your email client and stuff
Steven: It would have a social aspect and be free
Steven: And yeah, this would be a browser extension
Steven: I don't think there's an identical app out there
Omid: allright lets go with @David Collard idea, since he raises valid points. Just add your ranking implementation to the doc
Kevin: Can anyone edit the product.md?
David: no, it's view only @Omid Raj
Omid: oh mb lol
Omid: ok should be good now
